#Volcanos and lava

This worksheet describes the project assignment for this course. You are asked to provide solutions for the modeling, rendering, animation and interaction of a volcano scene, with animated and/or interactive elements.

The idea is to create a scenery in this theme. Your scene should involve modeling the ground through procedural means in the shader, and should include an animated fluid such as water or lava, and any adjoining animation and rendering effects. Your scene can be populated with any number of buildings, creatures and plants. Some models are provided but should be used parcimoniously.

You may include an animated character or animals but this is not mandatory, and left to your imagination. Your scene may involve interactive elements or play like a game. The goal of the project is to showcase your acquired knowledge in modeling, rendering, animation and demonstrate how you used these techniques to your classmates.



#Modeling

    Model at least one element with hierarchical and procedurally generated geometry. This could typically be a plant with hierarchical branches. By procedural, we mean that the geometry needs to be generated by your code and not simply loaded from a 3D model file. The generation could be on GPU or CPU but should not use any external dependency outside the ones already provided with the code base.

    Model at least one other part of the scene or terrain procedurally. Again, by procedural, we mean that the geometry needs to be generated by your own code, with no external dependency.

#Rendering

    Use lights and materials (as seen in Practical 4 - Local Illumination).

    Render a fog effect on GPU in your shader, where the color/luminance is attenuated in real time as a function of distance to the observer.

    render the surroundings (sky, background scenery) with a true skybox. By true skybox, we mean that the skybox should always be perceived at infinity (no parallax) and the observer could never get out of it. This means neutralizing the translational component of whatever proxy primitives or geometry you will use to render the skybox.

    render a particle system with e.g. splatting or textured billboards (e.g. smoke), or alternatively render a water surface effect (reflection/refraction, etc)

#Animation

    Animate one element with keyframes (to move it or change one of its properties)

    Create a fluid animation (water, lava, smoke) with a technique of your choosing. This could be optionally coupled with the particle system or water surface effect in the last bullet of the rendering section.

    Control one element with the keyboard.

#Optimizations

    Demonstrate in your project that you are careful in your resource usage

    Show at least one speed / efficiency optimization

#Other effect of your choice

    Add at least one element that was not covered in the practicals, whatever it is!

    Animating an animal or human character using the skinning animation technique is another idea. The provided human models possess animations when loaded from an FBX file.

    Another idea is to create a procedural animation on CPU and/or GPU (e.g. water surface, moving plants, smoke, flock of animals or birds…). By procedural, we mean that the effect should be generated in your shader and or Python code and directly affect the geometry in the shader as a function of time.

    Normal mapping, caustics, shadow mapping, PBR, are all rendering techniques that can be included. These techniques are more or less listed here in order of difficulty.
